Let's test this page for keyboard
accessibility.
The first thing I'm going to do when the
page loads is hit the tab key,
and I can use tab to move forward in the
interface,
and I can use Shift tab to move backwards
in the interface.
As I tab around this main navigation,
you may notice that there's a highly
visible visual indication of keyboard
focus.
It's pretty clear where I'm at.
That's what we want to see on all
controls.
Needs to be pretty obvious where I'm at
in this interface at all times.
One of the first things that we sent
focus to here was called the skip link.
We want to see those too when interfaces
have large chunks of content that should
be skipped over by keyboard users.
In this case,
I can activate this Skip to site map link
and jump all the way down to the bottom
of the page and navigate the content in
the footer without having to tab through
all of the content in the page.
That's very helpful.
And as I tab around,
I'm able to move through the experience
because my keyboard focus is not trapped.
That's important too.
We never want to be trapped in one spot.
As we tab around the interface, we also,
while we're doing keyboard testing,
why not identify all functionality that
is present for mouse users or users of
other pointing devices?
But those are there for keyboard users
too.
So let's take a look at the Click here
button in the hero.
If I click that,
the page scrolls down to this form down
at the bottom of the page.
So I would imagine if I tab to it and
then hit enter that that functionality
would be present.
So let's try that.
I'm going to tab through the navigation
and we would imagine that the next thing
that I would tab to is the next focusable
element, the click here button.
And as I tab there,
I actually skip all the way down to the
footer.
Something's going on here.
Why isn't this link keyboard accessible?
So at this point I would dive into the
code and figure out why this isn't
keyboard accessible.
Another important consideration while
doing keyboard testing is when we send
the keyboard focus to a focusable element
that it just doesn't automatically reload
the page or submit a web form without
warning users.